README.md, before:

# Humanly

A real-time voice chat application with LiveKit and AI agents.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (for Frontend)
- Python 3.11+ (for Backend)
- LiveKit Server (local or cloud)
- API keys: Deepgram, ElevenLabs

## Setup

### Backend Setup

1. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   cd Backend
   python -m venv venv
   .\venv\Scripts\activate  # Windows
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Configure environment variables:**
   Create `.env` in `Backend/`:
   ```env
   LIVEKIT_URL=ws://localhost:7880
   LIVEKIT_API_KEY=your_livekit_api_key
   LIVEKIT_API_SECRET=your_livekit_api_secret
   DEEPGRAM_API_KEY=your_deepgram_api_key
   ELEVENLABS_API_KEY=your_elevenlabs_api_key
   ```

3. **Run two processes:**
   ```bash
   # Terminal 1: API Server
   cd Backend
   python api_server.py
   
   # Terminal 2: LiveKit Agent
   cd Backend
   python simple_agent.py start
   ```

### Frontend Setup

1. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   cd Frontend
   npm install
   ```

2. **Configure environment variables:**
   Create `.env` in `Frontend/`:
   ```env
   VITE_BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:8000
   VITE_LIVEKIT_URL=ws://localhost:7880
   ```

3. **Run development server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   Access at `http://localhost:5173` (or port shown in terminal)

## Running the Application

1. Start the backend (API Server + LiveKit Agent in separate terminals)
2. Start the frontend
3. Open the application in your browser
4. Use the voice or text chat interface to interact with the AI agent

Commit message:

Making the LLM being able to detect when there is need of human escalation

README.md, after:

# Humanly

A real-time voice chat application with LiveKit and AI agents, featuring intelligent human escalation detection.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (for Frontend)
- Python 3.11+ (for Backend)
- LiveKit Server (local or cloud)
- API keys: Deepgram, ElevenLabs

## Setup

### Backend Setup

1. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   cd Backend
   python -m venv venv
   .\venv\Scripts\activate  # Windows
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Configure environment variables:**
   Create `.env` in `Backend/`:
   ```env
   LIVEKIT_URL=ws://localhost:7880
   LIVEKIT_API_KEY=your_livekit_api_key
   LIVEKIT_API_SECRET=your_livekit_api_secret
   DEEPGRAM_API_KEY=your_deepgram_api_key
   ELEVENLABS_API_KEY=your_elevenlabs_api_key
   ```

3. **Run two processes:**
   ```bash
   # Terminal 1: API Server
   cd Backend
   python api_server.py
   
   # Terminal 2: LiveKit Agent
   cd Backend
   python simple_agent.py start
   ```

### Frontend Setup

1. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   cd Frontend
   npm install
   ```

2. **Configure environment variables:**
   Create `.env` in `Frontend/`:
   ```env
   VITE_BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:8000
   VITE_LIVEKIT_URL=ws://localhost:7880
   ```

3. **Run development server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   Access at `http://localhost:5173` (or port shown in terminal)

## Features

### 🚨 Human Escalation Detection
The agent now includes intelligent detection for moments requiring human intervention:
- **Financial decisions** (offers, payments, contracts)
- **Authorization requests** (approvals, sensitive actions)
- **Information gaps** (questions outside agent's knowledge)
- **Sensitive topics** (medical, legal matters)
- **Direct user requests** for human assistance

All escalations are:
- ✅ Logged in real-time with detailed context
- ✅ Saved to `Backend/escalations.json` for review
- ✅ Categorized by urgency (low/medium/high/critical) and type
- ✅ Include recent conversation transcript

**[📖 Read the Escalation Detection Guide](Backend/ESCALATION_DETECTION.md)**

## Running the Application

1. Start the backend (API Server + LiveKit Agent in separate terminals)
2. Start the frontend
3. Open the application in your browser
4. Use the voice or text chat interface to interact with the AI agent

## Testing Escalation Detection

Try these phrases to test the escalation system:
- "Do you think I should accept the 10,000 euro offer?"
- "Can you approve this purchase for me?"
- "I need to speak with a human"

See **[Test Scenarios](Backend/test_escalation_scenarios.md)** for comprehensive testing examples.
